Fractals

Self-similarity across scales
  Of course they do
    something like an OHCO
    something like a wrapper/label/body relation
      element (content w/ gi)
      document w/ its metadata
  Head/body (tail?)
    or: front / body / back which 
    i.e. some document structures are already in emulation of or
      reflecting "real world" (physical) structures such as archives
        labeled boxes containing labeled folders containing labeled envelopes
  Language itself as well as formal logic / proof
    Propositions / arguments are composed of sentences
    sentences have organizations of words
    words map to phonetic units (combinations of phonemes)
  I.e. the discovered world as well as the created one
  
    
Mix of regular and irregular

"This one isn't the same as that one - but it is similar"
  (And its variation is significant or meaningful!)

One pattern is persistent uniqueness despite resemblance of artifacts across connections
Another pattern is the "chunks floating w/in soup" pattern we see particularly in literary forms
  such as typographic variation: italics or bold segments used as encoded languages
  or verse forms

All information wishes it were music.

If information is "meaningful variation within pattern" then information is fractal?

Of course, if something's fractal nature is for it to be poised between perfect system and normality, and perfect disorder, then maybe "information is (counter) entropy" (Shannon) takes on new meaning. Information, in other words, is neither certainty, nor uncertainty, but something in between: a consciousness of choice in the face of a knowledge of gaps and shortcomings.

We have no name for the smell except a recollection.

Hard to measure

Complexity is hard to measure because ... it's complicated
(To measure, is to simplify.)

How do we measure how much we must exclude, in order to measure?

(How do we decide what, exactly, to consider out of scope, even though we see it in front of us?)

Mostly this is done passively. The best most successful document formats work because they are a functional compromise between interests who agree that to agree, is more important for them than the agreement. ("It doesn't matter what we call it as long as we call it the same thing.") Much gets sacrificed along the way: we try not to think about that as we think about the considerable benefits we have won by our narrowing. (Our redefinition of the problem we cannot solve, as a problem we can solve, and solving that, and calling it a day.)